uuid/README.md, before:

rc-uuid
=======

Library for generating unique ids.

Install
-------
```bash
$> npm install rc-uuid --registry "http://deployer1:4873/"
```

Usage
-----
### `uuid.createUuid()`

Create and return a 16-character unique id. The characters will be chosen from the following alphabet:

`0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ~!`

UUIDs should not be truncated or modified if you want to maintain uniqueness.

The uuids are generated from 4 components: a machineId, processId, timestamp, and counter; the machineId is derived from the local machine's IPv4 address (which means this library will **not** currently work in the browser).
Because the uniqueness of the ids relies on a timestamp, machines generating ids should ensure their clock is synced with NTP servers.


### `uuid.parseUuid(str)`

Parse a valid uuid, returning an object in this format:
```javascript
{
    processId   : Number,
    machineId   : Number,
    ip          : String,   // will be '?.?.<num>.<num>'
    ts          : Date,
    counter     : Number
}
```

Throws an error if the input is not a valid 16-character uuid string.


### `uuid.randomUuid(len)`

Return a randomly-generated id of the provided length (defaults to 20 characters).

Note that these are **not** guaranteed unique, and should **not** be used alongside uuids from createUuid

Commit message:

Add code to create unique machineId when no IP address available

uuid/README.md, after:

rc-uuid
=======

Library for generating unique ids.

Install
-------
```bash
$> npm install rc-uuid --registry "http://deployer1:4873/"
```

Usage
-----
### `uuid.createUuid()`

Create and return a 16-character unique id. The characters will be chosen from the following alphabet:

`0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ~!`

UUIDs should not be truncated or modified if you want to maintain uniqueness.

The uuids are generated from 4 components: a machineId, processId, timestamp, and counter; the machineId is derived from the local machine's IPv4 address. If used in the browser or another situation where there is no external IP address available (i.e. not '127.0.0.1'), the machineId will instead be a random integer that cannot possibly come from a valid IPv4 address.

Because the uniqueness of the ids relies on a timestamp, machines generating ids should ensure their clock is synced with NTP servers.


### `uuid.parseUuid(str)`

Parse a valid uuid, returning an object in this format:
```javascript
{
    processId   : Number,
    machineId   : Number,
    ip          : String,   // will be '?.?.<num>.<num>'
    ts          : Date,
    counter     : Number
}
```

Throws an error if the input is not a valid 16-character uuid string.


### `uuid.randomUuid(len)`

Return a randomly-generated id of the provided length (defaults to 20 characters).

Note that these are **not** guaranteed unique, and should **not** be used alongside uuids from createUuid
